<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Appendix A: Attributions and Licensing</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css"/>
</head>
<body>
  <h1>Appendix A: Attributions and Licensing</h1>

  <h2>Font: FiraCode Nerd Font</h2>
  <p>This book uses FiraCode Nerd Font, a monospaced font with programming ligatures and additional glyphs from the Nerd Fonts project.</p>

  <p><strong>FiraCode</strong></p>
  <p>Author: Nikita Prokopov</p>
  <p>License: SIL Open Font License 1.1 (OFL-1.1)</p>
  <p>Source: https://github.com/tonsky/FiraCode</p>

  <p><strong>Nerd Fonts</strong></p>
  <p>Author: Ryan L McIntyre</p>
  <p>License: MIT License</p>
  <p>Source: https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts</p>

  <p>The SIL Open Font License permits free use, modification, and redistribution of the font, including embedding in documents and applications, provided the font is not sold by itself and this attribution is included.</p>

  <h2>Book Structure</h2>
  <p>The organizational structure of this book was inspired by the Delphi 4 Bible by Tom Swan (IDG Books Worldwide, 1998, ISBN 978-0764532375). No content was copied. All text is original, written for Swift 6 and Xcode 26.</p>

  <h2>Authors</h2>
  <p><strong>Dr. Wahl</strong> — pen name of <strong>Michael Lee Fluharty, AS CEEET</strong></p>
  <p>The pen name honors Ms. Wahl, Computer Literacy teacher at Peoples Middle School, Cincinnati, Ohio, circa 1990. She introduced a young student to Charles Babbage, Napier's Bones, UNIVAC, HyperCard, and HyperTalk — planting the seed that would grow into a career in technology and, 35 years later, the book you're reading now.</p>
  <p><strong>Claude A.</strong> — AI assistant by Anthropic. Co-author.</p>

  <h2>License</h2>
  <p>Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0 — Share and share alike with attribution required.</p>
  <p>Last updated: April 2026</p>
</body>
</html>